WIP: Update xCluster docs for DDL replication (#26395)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/launch-and-manage/monitor-and-alert/xcluster-monitor.md

---
title: Monitor xCluster
headerTitle: Monitor xCluster
linkTitle: xCluster
description: Monitoring the health of xCluster replication
headContent: Monitoring the state and health of xCluster replication
menu:
  preview:
    parent: monitor-and-alert
    identifier: xcluster-monitor
    weight: 110
type: docs
---

## Metrics

The list of xCluster metrics is available in the [xCluster metrics](../metrics/replication/).

> ## Console

Reviewer: do we want to expose instructions for looking at `ddl_queue` or `replicated_ddls` in docs?

| State                       : REPLICATING                                                |
| Target Universe UUID        : 2e3ff9c4-2c5a-4dc6-a6bc-20e2548b9f09                       |
| Databases                   : Following are the databases included in this replication   |
|                             : Database 1:                                                |
|                             : Name: yugabyte                                             |
|                             : State: READY                                               |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

No Inbound xCluster replications found for this cluster.

```

  </div>

  <div id="local" class="tab-pane fade " role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="local-tab">

<!-- Local Monitor -->

To list outgoing groups on the Primary universe, use the [list_xcluster_outbound_replication_groups](../../../admin/yb-admin/#list-xcluster-outbound-replication-groups) command:

```sh
./bin/yb-admin \
    -master_addresses <primary_master_addresses> \
    list_xcluster_outbound_replication_groups \
    [namespace_id]
```

> To list inbound groups on the Standby universe, use the [list_universe_replications](../../../admin/yb-admin/#list_universe_replications) command:

Reviewer 2: command doesn't appear to be there - link correct?

```sh
./bin/yb-admin \
    -master_addresses <standby_master_addresses> \
    list_universe_replications \
    [namespace_id]
```

To get the status of the replication group use [get_replication_status](../../../admin/yb-admin/#get-replication-status)

```sh
yb-admin \
    -master_addresses <target-master-addresses> \
    get_replication_status \
    [<replication_id>]
```

  </div>

</div>

## xCluster safe time

> For transactional xCluster replication groups the current xCluster safe time, is the safe time as of which consistent reads are performed on the target universe. You can use the following commands to see the current xCluster safe time:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In transactional xCluster replication setups, the current xCluster safe time is the safe time as of which consistent reads are performed on the target universe. You can use the following commands to see the current xCluster safe time:
```

|                             : Name: yugabyte                                             |
|                             : Safe Time: 2025-03-14 20:43:49.723305                      |
|                             : Safe Time Lag(micro secs): 0.88                            |
|                             : Safe Time Skew(micro secs): 0.81                           |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```
  </div>

  <div id="local-safe-time" class="tab-pane fade " role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="local-safe-time-tab">

  ```sh
  yb-admin \
      -master_addresses <standby_master_addresses> \
      get_xcluster_safe_time \
      [include_lag_and_skew]
  ```

  Example output:
  ```output
  [
      {
          "namespace_id": "000034cb000030008000000000000000",
          "namespace_name": "yugabyte",
          "safe_time": "2025-03-14 20:51:25.915918",
          "safe_time_epoch": "1742010685915918",
          "safe_time_lag_sec": "0.50",
          "safe_time_skew_sec": "0.02"
      }
  ]
  ```

  </div>
  </div>

## YB-Master and YB-Tserver UI

> You can access the YB-Master and YB-Tserver UIs to monitor the health of xCluster replication at `/xcluster`.

Reviewer 2: Maybe link to master and tserver reference pages UI sections

Author: Where is this page?

> *YB-Master outbound*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**YB-Master outbound**
```

Reviewer 2: Maybe point out that outbound = source and inbound = target

<http://127.0.0.1:7000/xcluster>
![Source YB-Master outbound](/images/deploy/xcluster/automatic-outbound.jpg)

> *YB-Master inbound*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**YB-Master inbound**
```

<http://127.0.0.1:7000/xcluster>:
![Target YB-Master inbound](/images/deploy/xcluster/automatic-inbound.jpg)

> *YB-Tserver outbound*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**YB-Tserver outbound**
```
